hello and welcome to a thousand simple
recipes today I'm in the kitchen making
one of my favorite Mexican snacks the
burrito and in this video I will do a
bean version but you can be really
creative with this and use some roasted
or barbecued meats rice salads roasted
peppers and onions and with a guacamole
in a tomato cell so this is a really
flavor some snack so without further ado
let's make a Mexican burrito here's our
ingredients for our burrito and I've got
some guacamole here which I've done in
another video so check the link and also
I've done a tortilla or flatbread also
check check that out in another link but
you can buy those things in the
supermarket if you don't have the time
I've got some tomato paste some grated
cheddar cheese some refried beans I've
got some cocoa powder cumin powder some
dried oregano some fresh mint lime juice
I've got some red onion and some garlic
I've got some chopped tomato some
coriander and some fresh chilies and as
always the recipe and the ingredients
list is in the description box below
so the first thing I'm going to do is
make a tomato salsa and I'm just going
to do up deseeded and basically all you
do is just chop your tomato into
quarters or eights and and just take the
seeds out of them like that and then
chop them finely
now with our onion I've got a whole only
that I've just chopped and I'm just
going to add those to the salsa
and I've got some four or five mint
leaves and I think mint goes really well
with this tomato salsa and so I'm just
gonna slice that up and we'll just
roughly slice that up it doesn't have to
be too small and I'll just add that to
the salsa and all that my bet half a
bunch of coriander a pinch of dried
oregano half a teaspoon of salt and I'm
just got a yellow habanero chili this is
optional of course if you like it hot
I'm just going to slice that up finely
and put that in as well and of course
I've got one lime that I've just juiced
and we're just going to pull that
through and we'll mix that up
and what you can do is put this into a
fridge for an hour while you re fry the
beans and the longer it sits there the
more those flavors will really come
together really nicely and it'll be an
absolutely delicious tomato salsa so I'm
just going to cover that I'll put some
of that yellow chili in and that's it
for our tomato salsa and onto our
refried beans so doing our refried beans
which I've just got about two or three
tablespoons of olive oil and then I'm
just going to throw in one dried red
chili now this is optional of course I'm
just going to let that fry up and I'm
going to throw in about a quarter of a
teaspoon of dried or Agana some garlic
about close and a half to two cloves of
garlic just gonna fry all those up and
then we will throw in our half a red
onion that I've chopped finely with the
onions I just want a little bit of color
into the onions I don't want to cook
them too much but I just want them to
get a little bit of color that's just
starting to color now and that's been on
for about two two-and-a-half minutes and
now I'm just gonna add my coat that 1/2
teaspoon each of Coco and cumin powder
and that's gonna give it a nice these
beans the refried beans a really nice
rich taste and we're just gonna fry
those up for a few seconds and I'm just
going to throw in a tablespoon of tomato
paste now I'm just going to fry put that
to one side and fly that to get the
tartness out of the
tomatoes and that that Sun maybe
probably 15 seconds I'll fire that up
for and then add it to the rest of the
mix it through the onions and the spices
so with basically what we're trying to
do is just build layers into the refried
beans so that's about enough and I'm
just going to mix those all through now
and when we deseeded the tomatoes for
our tomato salsa I we're just going to
use all those deseeded tomorrows and
we're gonna add that I'll just cook that
up for a few minutes and I'm just gonna
add about 1 TSP of sugar just to balance
out that acidity in the tomatoes and
we'll just fry that up for a few minutes
and then we'll add our refried beans so
this has been on for about three or four
minutes and I'm now going to add my
refried beans I've got probably one can
the other thing I'm going to add is just
about a quarter of a teaspoon of salt
to the mix and we just cook those up for
a few minutes and I'm just going to mash
probably half of them like this and the
rest will leave the way they are hold
and this has been on for about oh ten
minutes and I'm just going to turn the
heat off there and we'll wrap up our
burritos
now I've got my fresh tortilla that I've
just made but if you're using one from a
supermarket or a shop just give it a
quick blast of heat either in the
microwave or 15 seconds on a hot pan on
either side just to loosen up so it's
easy to roll now the first thing
I'm gonna do is put some cheese down
across my burrito because I'm also once
we've rolled our burrito I'm going to
put it on a fry pan and quickly fry it
so this cheese will melt once it hits
the heat so you want it close to the
bread and I'll just put that into the
onto the fry pan so and that will also
help the flatbread hold together when
you're reading it so now I've just
browned this on each side for fifteen or
twenty seconds and now it's ready to eat
so here we have our Mexican burrito and
I can't wait to take a bite out of this
and hmm I tell you with a salsa the
melted cheese and the refried beans that
is a great combo so that's all I have
for you this week so you'll have to come
back and see me next week on a thousand
simple recipes bye